# Schola Empirica PDF Format

Function called in the output section of the YAML header (see examples
below), instructing `knitr` to use the standard Schola PDF document
format. If you run into any problem using the Czech language, consult
this function details first.

## Usage

``` r
schola_pdf(
  num_format = NULL,
  number_sections = FALSE,
  toc = TRUE,
  template = find_resource("schola_pdf", "schola_template.tex"),
  latex_engine = "xelatex",
  fig_crop = FALSE,
  document_class = "report",
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- num_format:

  *Character*, if `cs`, Czech number formatting is used. Other values
  are currently ignored and will result in default options.

- number_sections:

  *Logical*, `TRUE` to number headings. Defaults to `FALSE`.

- toc:

  *Logical*, `TRUE` (default) to include a table of contents. The title
  is set with `pandoc` variable `toc-title` in YAML header.

- template:

  *Character*, path to the `.tex` template used by the format. Defaults
  to standard Schola template bundled in the package. **Changes
  discouraged.**

- latex_engine:

  *Character*, engine used for `.md` to `.pdf` conversion. Only
  `xelatex` (the default) and `lualatex` are supported because of custom
  fonts. **Changes discouraged.**

- fig_crop:

  *logical*, whether to crop PDF figures. Defaults to `FALSE`. Requires
  the tools `pdfcrop` and `ghostscript` to be installed, if `TRUE`.

- document_class:

  *Character*, one of standard LaTeX document class. Defaults to
  `report`. **Changes discouraged.**

- ...:

  Arguments passed on to
  [`rmarkdown::pdf_document`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/reference/pdf_document.html)

  `toc_depth`

  :   Depth of headers to include in table of contents

  `fig_width`

  :   Default width (in inches) for figures

  `fig_caption`

  :   `TRUE` to render figures with captions

  `df_print`

  :   Method to be used for printing data frames. Valid values include
      "default", "kable", "tibble", and "paged". The "default" method
      uses a corresponding S3 method of `print`, typically
      `print.data.frame`. The "kable" method uses the
      [`knitr::kable`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/knitr/man/kable.html)
      function. The "tibble" method uses the tibble package to print a
      summary of the data frame. The "paged" method creates a paginated
      HTML table (note that this method is only valid for formats that
      produce HTML). In addition to the named methods you can also pass
      an arbitrary function to be used for printing data frames. You can
      disable the `df_print` behavior entirely by setting the option
      `rmarkdown.df_print` to `FALSE`. See [Data frame printing
      section](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/html-document.html#data-frame-printing)
      in bookdown book for examples.

  `highlight`

  :   Syntax highlighting style passed to Pandoc.

      Supported built-in styles include "default", "tango", "pygments",
      "kate", "monochrome", "espresso", "zenburn", "haddock", and
      "breezedark".

      Two custom styles are also included, "arrow", an accessible color
      scheme, and "rstudio", which mimics the default IDE theme.
      Alternatively, supply a path to a `.theme` file to use [a custom
      Pandoc style](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#syntax-highlighting).
      Note that custom theme requires Pandoc 2.0+.

      Pass `NULL` to prevent syntax highlighting.

  `keep_tex`

  :   Keep the intermediate tex file used in the conversion to PDF. Note
      that this argument does not control whether to keep the auxiliary
      files (e.g., `.aux`) generated by LaTeX when compiling `.tex` to
      `.pdf`. To keep these files, you may set
      `options(tinytex.clean = FALSE)`.

  `keep_md`

  :   Keep the markdown file generated by knitting.

  `citation_package`

  :   The LaTeX package to process citations, `natbib` or `biblatex`.
      Use `default` if neither package is to be used, which means
      citations will be processed via the command `pandoc-citeproc`.

  `includes`

  :   Named list of additional content to include within the document
      (typically created using the
      [`includes`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/reference/includes.html)
      function).

  `md_extensions`

  :   Markdown extensions to be added or removed from the default
      definition of R Markdown. See the
      [`rmarkdown_format`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/rmarkdown/reference/rmarkdown_format.html)
      for additional details.

  `output_extensions`

  :   Pandoc extensions to be added or removed from the output format,
      e.g., `"-smart"` means the output format will be `latex-smart`.

  `pandoc_args`

  :   Additional command line options to pass to pandoc

  `extra_dependencies`

  :   A LaTeX dependency `latex_dependency()`, a list of LaTeX
      dependencies, a character vector of LaTeX package names (e.g.
      `c("framed", "hyperref")`), or a named list of LaTeX package
      options with the names being package names (e.g.
      `list(hyperef = c("unicode=true", "breaklinks=true"), lmodern = NULL)`).
      It can be used to add custom LaTeX packages to the .tex header.

## Value

A modified
[`bookdown::pdf_document2`](https://pkgs.rstudio.com/bookdown/reference/html_document2.html)
with the standard Schola formatting.

## Package `babel` hyphenation warning

You may encounter a following warning when your document is being
"compiled" to `.pdf` format:

    Warning: Package babel Warning: No hyphenation patterns were preloaded for
    Warning: (babel)                the language 'Czech' into the format.
    Warning: (babel)                Please, configure your TeX system to add them and
    Warning: (babel)                rebuild the format. Now I will use the patterns
    Warning: (babel)                preloaded for \language=0 instead on input line 53.

This usually solves by calling `tinytex::tlmgr_install("hyphen-czech")`
(if you are a `{tinytex}` user).

## See also

Other Report templates and formats:
[`copy_schola_template()`](https://scholaempirica.github.io/reschola/reference/copy_schola_template.md),
[`open_schola_template()`](https://scholaempirica.github.io/reschola/reference/open_schola_template.md),
[`schola_word()`](https://scholaempirica.github.io/reschola/reference/schola_word.md),
[`schola_word2()`](https://scholaempirica.github.io/reschola/reference/schola_word2.md)

## Author

Jan Netik

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# in YAML header ------
output:
reschola::schola_pdf:
toc:false
} # }
```
